---
tags:
---
# Settlements
When you find yourself in a settlement, the first question you may ask is: what can I buy in this settlement? Historically, most settlements on the frontier had access only to goods that were of immediate importance: nails and pitch for building houses, seeds, plows, and scythes for farming, rope and brands for livestock, and so on. The official rule in Pathfinder is that you can find all common magic items of a level at most equal to the level of the settlement. Here, to simulate the more rugged conditions settlers faced, magic items will be more scarce up level 7 (frontier capitol), where the official rule again becomes the default. General types of items that can be found at a given settlement level are noted in the descriptions below and are also found on each settlement's stat block. 

Level 0 - Collection of sod or log houses. Can barely trade, perhaps for some wheat or meat. Population 15-30. 
Level 1 - Trading post. Will have a general store for trade and perhaps a tavern for brief stays by trappers, hunters, and farmers. Basic goods such as common simple weapons, ammunition, and some few level 1 and below consumables can be found here. Population 25 to 50. 
Level 2 - Tent and cabin town, often a gold mining outfit or logging camp. Here can be found one or two storehouses (often with a blacksmith in employ or as owner), perhaps one specialist outfit (such as a carpenter for building sluice boxes), baker, a saloon, and a hurdy-gurdy dance house. There may be a few log cabins, but most of the residents reside in tents that they pack in themselves. These towns tend to grow and die quickly. Most common goods can be found here (though martial weapons are less common) and a selection of level 2 and below consumables. Population 100 to 2,000. 
Level 3 - Trail town. A town that has sprung up along the major trail routes but has not yet set its roots. The fixtures of this town include a general store with blacksmithing capabilities, a tavern, wooden houses, carpenter (employed in making both furniture and repairing vehicles), church, and an express office. These towns are often situated at natural stopping points along the trail, such as watering holes or pastures. Some buildings may be constructed with logs, but most are now built with planks. With access to a greater flow of goods, players can expect to find a few permanent magic items and a greater number of consumables. Population 50 to 150.  
Level 4 - Settled town. This town has grown from the trail routes and burgeoned due to some natural or man-made quality, such as being well-situated between farms or having a mill constructed by an enterprising individual. Here you can find a blacksmith or two, a couple of general stores, one or two taverns, church, brothel, carpenter, cooper, express office (and perhaps a newspaper), and some business related to the local goods produced such as a feed, grain and hay store or a windmill for flour (other examples include wool mills, breweries, and a drug and cigar store). Justice is usually dispensed by a town council, or offenders are held until a wandering magistrate pays a visit. Players can expect to find a smattering of consumables and permanent items, though most weapons will still be restricted to simple weapons and magic items will be fairly mundane. Population 150 to 300. 
Level 5 - Trading town. Here is a town that is situated at the end of a river or rail track, allowing for the expedited flow of goods between the colonies and the frontier towns. The flow of wealth through here draws many enterprising merchants and businesses become specialized, general stores turning into groceries, blacksmiths becoming farm equipment manufacturers, and markets turning into hay stores and butchers. General goods stores now sell finer items such as wallpaper, glass, and crayons, and banks and real estate outfits spring up to finance ventures and capitalize on the exchange of goods. Saloons, taverns, and brothels offer accomodations and places for weary workers to spend their hard-earned cash, while hotels and the occasional restaurant cater to capitalists who venture out here to make deals with cattle herders and traders. The express office will often be situated in the general goods store or the bank, and a town newspaper covers local events and hawks job postings and business opportunities. Law and order is kept by a marshal and her gang. Players can expect to find a good selection of magic items and consumables from a local alchemist and have access to martial weapons and heavier armor. Population - 300 to 1,000.
Level 6 - Boom town/major town. This town is like the trading town but is primely situated at the confluence of several factors that lead to its extensive growth, such as a settlement at the end of a major cow drive, on the river, and with a rail station. The businesses found here are much the same as the trading town but more numerous, though there is often one defining feature to the town such as a famous dance hall or hotel, or the town may become known for a particularly exciting event. Drifters and cowboys will often move through these towns in their search for work. Players can find most any common mundane and magic item. Population 1,000 - 5,000.
Level 7 - Frontier capitol. The political center of an area, frontier capitols often grow out of boom towns that prove lasting. As the level of political sophistication grows, so too does the culture, and one can expect to find stores selling fine clothing, imported furniture, and hard-bound books. There will be one or two restaurants and even a theater or opera house. A dedicated magic store is a common sight, and they often can place orders for items not in their inventory that the purchaser can expect within a week. There are often muliple pharmacists and herbalists from whom consumables can be purchased. The marshal will have a sizeable police force of perhaps two dozen men to maintain order. Players can find all common magic items. Population 5,000-10,000.
Level 8 - Minor city. Here is where things really begin to kick off. A minor city will have everything the frontier capitol offers and then some: multiple permanent installations for the arts, restaurants of every flavor, trade fairs, and