---
tags:

---
# Dang Tet Kang
Dang Tet Kang is a nation situated in the dense jungles of the Xanh Tươi Expanse. Being isolated from the rest of the continent, it has maintained a remarkably stable culture over the centuries. This culture is most notable for its deep reverence for animals that other nations consider draft animals or pets, but their relationship with these animals is one of careful cultivation and control rather than deference to nature as is. They long ago mastered the breeding of animals to maximize their desired traits, but what sets them apart from other cultivators is their infusing of primal magic into the development of their breeds, allowing them to alter the very fabric of life. For hundreds of years this was used to fairly minimal effect - often it was no more than making a chicken's feathers a brilliant melange of colors or strengthening the back of oxen - but in the past few centuries these breeders have grown increasingly bold, inspired by the technological developments of other nations and the heady philosophical currents of the Age of Ascendancy. Their creations in the past century have been striking in their imagination and daring in their purpose. Called metamorphics by their creators and bestials or aberrants by those opposed, they have transformed Dang Tet Kang society. The most well-known are the tigeresques, enormous draft animals and guards, and the elephantines, creatures so large they can carry dozen of men on their backs. The most recent innovation, and the pride of the nation, is the Leviathan, a gargantuan floating whale that resembles a zeppelin in form and purpose.
In warfare, Dang Tet Kang uses a mixture of primal magic, metamorphic battle units, and humanoid soldiers predominantly to conduct guerilla warfare, taking advantage of the denseness of their jungle home.
While the war with the Kyrie Emprenacht is one that, at its core, is a war of exploitation and resource control, with the Emprenacht fighting to gain control of many commodities in the region such as rubber and diamonds, the purpose of the war as conveyed to the Emprenacht citizens is one of righting the order of the world. It is not for man to re-fashion Nature as they desire, and these creatures can be viewed as nothing but abominations, insults to God whose avatar is the God-Emperor. This lends a more desperate, and more zealous, air to the conflict, one which has turned it into a ruthless campaign of total war on both sides.